[[NewtonConnectionUtilities]] (NCU)is the program that shipped with the MessagePad2000 and MessagePad2100.  It's only available for Windows and Mac OS <= 9, and as it was written by Apple, so it hasn't been updated in years.  That having been said, [[NewtonConnectionUtilities]] will run very happily in Classic mode under Mac OS X 10.2. [[NewtonConnectionUtilities]] only connects to OS 2.x machines, and only via serial, [[LocalTalk]], or [[EtherTalk]].  For OS 1.x machines, use [[NewtonConnectionKit]].

* NCU for Windows people: New machines (i.e. faster than, say, 166 MHz) have timing problems with the serial connection between the Newton and the PC.   Use slowdown.exe <http://www.unna.org/unna/windows/> to improve the timing problem.   Machines faster than 1 GHz needs to have 2 copies of slowdown running.

Some newer programs are available as well, and so are programs for other platforms.

* [[NewtSync]]: extensible sync tool for OS X.2 (Jaguar) via TCP/IP or serial.  Currently supports [[AddressBook]], iCal.
* [[NewtonBackupExpress]]: third-party backup-only program for Classic [[MacOS]] - connects via Newton Dock/Connection.
* [[NewTen]]: native OS X package installer - only supports serial connections (based on [[UnixNPI]] below)

* [[NewtonLink]] for Linux/UN*X: installs programs, import/exports, syncs with a few linux contact managers. Requires [[Sloup]].
* [[UnixNPI]]: a package installer for many UN*X operating systems - serial only (up to 230400)
* [[NewtonXchange]] (nXchange) for Linux/UN*X: installs programs, get selected notes (text only), import text files to notepad. Requires [[Sloup]].

* [[LookOut]]: synchronizes with MSOutlook (old and crufty, though)
* [[OutLink]]: also synchronizes with MSOutlook (also old and crufty)
* [[NewtDump]]: exports data from many Newton apps to various formats on the PC - serial only, requires [[Sloup]]