Date: Wed, 5 Jan 2005 22:53:05 -0500
Mime-Version: 1.0 (Produced by PhpWiki 1.3.11p1)
Content-Type: application/x-phpwiki;
  pagename=ConvertOrExport;
  flags="";
  author=207.34.68.34;
  version=1;
  lastmodified=1104983585;
  created=1104983585;
  author_id=207.34.68.34;
  markup=2;
  summary=Updated%20URL%20to%20Jason%20Harper%27s%20home%20page.;
  hits=572;
  charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary

First you'll need to have __Voicenotes__ by ''modasys - mobile data systems''. It is a fantasic application for managing notes you take with your newton - it even allows you to record new notes using the power switch, so you don't have to open the newt to record a memo.

Next you will need to install Binhexer from [Prism | http://members.aol.com/NewtsPrism/]

Next you will need Viewframe from Jason Harper's home [page  | http://pobox.com/~JasonHarper/]

Now you can export a Voicenotes sound to a PC or Mac:

Voice notes stores long recordings as linked sections of about 5 seconds each. But you can export each one and reassemble them using a PC program. It is a little tedious for long files, so maybe someone can figure out how to automate this...

First: file the recording you want in a new folder. make the name of the folder unique.

Open Viewframe
chose on the "+"
select Soup Browser
Look for "SoundLibrary:Voicenotes:ebb"
check the number beside the folder name you created for your sound file.
close the window
open the slot in the list called BlocksAll...
select each sound section in order, Viewframe will play them as you open them
chose the Routing button, and select Binhex Sound File.


Then you can use NCU and "Export from Newtonworks" to get the BinHexed data into your PC or Mac. (I could only get it to work using RTF format.) Use Stuffit or Winzip to unpack the Binhexed data.
