Date: Wed, 30 Nov 2005 15:40:55 -0500
Mime-Version: 1.0 (Produced by PhpWiki 1.3.11p1)
Content-Type: application/x-phpwiki;
  pagename=DashBoard;
  flags="";
  author=198.209.225.230;
  version=1;
  lastmodified=1133383255;
  created=1133383255;
  author_id=198.209.225.230;
  markup=2;
  summary=Changed%20name%20of%20Script%20Repository.;
  hits=920;
  charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary

Dashboard is an application which runs in an area of screen real estate rarely touched by Newton Apps; The ButtonBar on MP2X00's. It is perhaps the most versatile and useful application writen to completment the Newton OS.

It acts both as a Newton "Startbar" equivilant by displaying full listings of all packages and data stored on internal and card memory and allowing easy application launching and as a Newton "control strip" like the one found in Mac OS 9, giving instant feeback and access to several key system controls (eg; screen rotation, memory, backlight etc).

If the app's sole prerogative was merely to provide such services it would already be a thoroughly justifiable purchase however it does far more than just this.

The "Newton" button not only acts as a heirarchical menu for the purposes of launching packages but can also be fully customised and scripted to the highest degree affording the user a veritable cousin to Apple Script on the Mac OS. The scripts are of great help as, along with being easily written by the user they are capable of performing a great multitude of tasks from as menial as moving Dates information to completing complex "macro" like tasks.

In addition to the "Newton" button Dashboard can also launch applications and scripts from a single letter/digit command field. This is as easily scripted as every other part of the application and allows the user to launch a specific application or script with one letter drawn in the box using Newton's HWR. This is a massive advantage which saves time both on having to search through your Extra's Draw or even  going to the application through the "Newton" Button.

[A Dashboard scripting repository can be found here.|DashBoardScriptRepository]

This is, by no means, an exhaustive review of Dashboard's capabilities but if you like what you've read here I'd recommend you download it and give it a try, I reckon you'll be pleasantly surprised at just how much better your Newton can be!

John Swaine
http://www.plastic-rabbit.co.uk/wafflings.html
