Date: Thu, 1 Dec 2005 11:17:00 -0500
Mime-Version: 1.0 (Produced by PhpWiki 1.3.11p1)
Content-Type: application/x-phpwiki;
  pagename=DeadWare;
  flags="";
  author=AndyVanDerRaadt;
  version=1;
  lastmodified=1133453820;
  created=1133453820;
  author_id=68.145.111.222;
  hits=519;
  charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary

Re: Newton packages no longer supported but users need license codes
....in response to Paul Jerry's post:

As for the "deadware" issue, it's a witches brew to be sure.

....... To put this all in context, I would have to say that the case now
exists whereby an application which, having been created, developed, and
marketed, by an Apple "partner", e.g. a small-business vendor, in good
faith, then suddenly faced with the reality of Newton's demise, may have:

#. gone out of business and been irreparably harmed in the the process
#. cut their losses and run, shifting to another platform
#. continued marketing their existing Newton Software

.... etc., etc., and the litany of havoc leaving only a faint trail of
dust for the consumer to track down in good faith.

Remember, in the overall scheme of things, for whatever reason(s) the
entire Newton initiative was rather abruptly cut short in August of 1998
when Apple formally announced it's end of production. Lots of balls were
still up in the air and to this day have still not landed.

So, there exist numerous Newton packages in a state of
limbo which have lost support by their developers for one reason or
another. The applications run the gamut from junkware to  geniusware and
from freeware to full version commmercialware. The sad thing is, one of
the ramifications of the abrupt termination of Apple's support and
production for the Newton is that there exist some very high quality,
usable Newton packages which were developed during the late 1990's in
good faith by vendors heavily investing in the process to build
outstanding best-of-breed software, in various states of versioning, but
must quit fine-tuned over the few years they were rolled out. Being high-
end or commercial in nature the developers of these apps needed to
protect their property by all of the normal licensing routines, and
here's the crux of the issue, some of which entailed interaction between
the vendor and the consumer at point of sale to generate and then use
the unlocking codes which seem normally to be based on the "owner's"
name or the motherboard serial number, or some such method whereby the
vendor could at least exert "some" degree of control over pirating.

So if you are in a situation where you either already own, or want to
purchase a license for such a Newton application from a vendor who has
long since vanished and moved on, how do you activate the application?
You still are going to need some kind of unlocking code.  Try as you may
to legitimately track down the few remaining online Newton software
vendors to fulfill this requirement, in some cases the vendors no longer
exist.

Fortunately for me, in the case of [TimeTrax | http://config.de/], by Config
Informationstechnik eG in Rottenbach, Germany, this group of software
engineers at the Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-N=FCrnberg has
been active since May 1995 and remains active today.

So, with [TimeTrax | http://config.de/] for example, the procedure to install this application
on your Newton is as follows. You first download their free demo. Try it
use it, and if you want then to register and license it you click the
about [TimeTrax | http://config.de/] item on your Newton which brings up a screen which
displays a "seed" number.  This number presumably is either plucked
directly out of the motherboard somewhere, or further manipulated based
on some physical link to your Newton's identity, i.e. it's motherboard.
The, you go back to [TimeTrax's | http://config.de/] online registration page, enter the
"seed" number, your name, billing info etc. and click on finish. The
info gets sent to Germany. Someone there reviewed the incoming orders
manually each day, sends you back the activation code via email which
you then enter into the Newton [TimeTrax | http://config.de/] about dialog and your demo
version becomes the full commercial version. All fine and dandy as long
as the kind folks in Germany continue to support this scheme.

But when they, and others no longer do, there are at least two very
unpleasant ramifications to end-users.

The first is that new users of, again just as one example, say [TimeTrax | http://config.de/]
will be able to download the demo version expires after 30 days, then
have no chance to register and unlock it into the commercial version for
perpetual use.

The second is the case of an existing user who, for whatever reason,
chooses or is forced to move from Newton A to Newton B, and in so doing
is plunged into the inextricable quagmire of having no way to unlock the
application on the new Newton because the new Newton has a different ID
so the application rejects the licensing and will not function as a
commercial full version.

Hence the trap.

Funny you mention this. I had searched for and found an expense
reporting Newton application called !ExpensePlus (which BTW is EXCELLENT)
for entering line item costs to manage and manipulate them on my Newton
and after having run the demo version for about 10 minutes I knew I
wanted to register and pay for the commercial full version so I went
back to the !WalletWare Web page to
order which instructed me to CALL by PHONE [no on line automated
licensing for this package, you have to download it, then call or email
them] to do so, which I did. The funny thing was that the people at
!WalletWare did not even KNOW the aforreferenced URL page for !ExpensePlus
for Newton even existed on their own site, LOLOLOL. I had to tell read
the URL, letter for letter,  and they were surprised when it came up on
their screen. Anyway they finally gave me the phone number for their
tech support department and I spoke with a VERY helpful tech named Gary
who knew immediately of the Newton !ExpensePlus software as he had
originally been on the coding team. He personally put together a
compressed folder of all the files I would need [it took him almost an
hour to do all this at his end] and he emailed it all to me. Gary was
busy, but he did me the favor and got me up and running, for which I am
grateful. His only caveat was that I needed to be aware that no
conventional phone or email "support exists for this truly amazing
application, which I totally agreed to and understand from a business
perspective.  I thanked him. He also processed the payment and
registration.  But this points out a problem which will only worsen in
the future, i.e. as time goes on less and less support will exist for
Newton applications, thank God for UNNA, what a wealth of information
all in one place and well archived for all of us to benefit from. I
donated financially to the cause and all of us should do the same as
there's no free lunch and we need UNNA to stay strong and remain in
healthy in perpetuity.

But back to the question at hand, I guess you just need to do your
homework up front and do a little research on whatever the app is that
you are testing out. e.g. Does the vendor still have a Web presence?

I think "some" apps have officially been formally granted to the public
domain by their authors as they were aware of just the issue you speak.
Other apps probably have slid off the edge by neglect of their creators
and may languish in the demo-version 4th dimension never to return to
our world, sad. Other vendors such as the developers of !TimeTrax at
<http://config.de/> are still up and running their storefronts on the
web and I just ordered and paid for my registration from them. I believe
they are in Rottenback, Germany. Damn Germans <G>  .....leave it to them
to make the best damn software for the Newton, or anything for that
matter ;-)  What a crafty bunch they are.

To make matters worse, some Newton apps tie their license to the Newton
"owner's" name, yet others tie it to the Newton serial number of the
motherboard.  Aaarrggghhh!   So where does that leave you if your
motherboard goes south and the vendor does too ?  You're sunk.

I am at present in the process of contacting Config Informationstecknik
in Germany over just this very issue as the [TimeTrax | http://config.de/] license is tied to
the motherboard.  Not good, for the honest consumer, that is.

I am aware that there is a "universal" license key that one could use in
this specific scenario, with for example [TimeTrax | http://config.de/] which is in this
category, to enter which would unlock the demo version into the
commercial version.  It so happened I was in this exact situation. I
have ten newtons. They are all 2000's and 2100's. They all work and I'll
use them as needed for parts until I die, but need to be certain I can
always keep using my Newton for the next 10-20-30 years, or as long as
I'm alive, hence the stockpile of Newtons.  As for the universal license
key thing, a friend on this list sent me something to try and I tried it
but it was such that the last four characters were non alpha-numeric,
they were high-ascii or something weird and could not tell visually how
to enter them so I never was able to even see of the key actually worked
or not.  I'm not going to say any more about the universal key thing
because even though I'm sure 999 of the 1,000 users on this list are
honest and ethical, there's always that one who wants their free lunch
and leeches off the rest of us.  Anyway, you can contact me off list if
you need help in this regard, but I won't give out the key even if you
do as I do not have that right, and would never want to compromise the
developer's business.  'nuf said.

If I had no qualms about jeopardizing the developers rights I'd post a
screen print of the characters of which I speak and someone on the list
would probably know right away exactly what they are. But the need to
protect the developers universal license exceeds my need as a single
user so I will not ever do this.  If you had the ignition key to unlock
the doors of every car in America and start the engine would you
duplicate and distribute them to everyone on the street? I certainly
hope not. If you did everyone would be at risk, not to mention no police
force in the world could outnumber the people with all the keys, nor
could the manufacturer of the car undo you giving the keys out in the
first place.

So, Long story short, guess it's the old Caveat Emptor deal. The final
responsibility lies with each one of us.

Maybe it would be a good thing, or perhaps it already exists somewhere
on UNNA or elsewhere, to compile a list of known software which is no
longer supported, nor does the vendor want to or care any more, of
license numbers that could be used in such cases of applications that
are valid, needed, but can't be licensed in perpetuity simply because
the vendor died or went out of business or does not care any more.

If such a list of "deadware" [I herby proclaim my trademark rights to
the word "deadware" if this has any merit] exists would someone please
post it's URL.

If not then someone, maybe me, should start one.  Of course, in the
world we live there are also the legal issues of making public such a
list. I know that there is at least one very well informed and capable
legal professional on this list that could clarify the finer points of
the public domain licensing issue for us and please email me off list if
you are willing to help at [mailto:OceanCity@mac.com]

If needed, we, me, I, someone, a committee could/can try to track down
and contact the deadware vendors to obtain written legal releases to
post such license codes publicly in a manageable and organized fashion,
without stepping on anyone's toes.  If need be, I'll do this myself. On
the other hand I would imagine that UNNA has already addressed this
issue long ago and I just am not aware of where the list would be. The
clock keeps ticking.  Entropy, etc. John [mailto:OceanCity@mac.com]!
