Date: Mon, 31 May 2004 09:54:31 -0400
Mime-Version: 1.0 (Produced by PhpWiki 1.3.11p1)
Content-Type: application/x-phpwiki;
  pagename=eMateKeyboardIllumination;
  flags="";
  author=VictorRehorst;
  version=1;
  lastmodified=1086011671;
  created=1086011671;
  author_id=204.225.173.9;
  markup=2;
  hits=495;
  charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary

An idea I had to add some useful lights to the eMate.

Stephanie Maks has already [demonstrated adding an LED to the serial TX line|http://www.felesmagus.com/newton/otheremate.html] and then turning it on and off.  While that's cool, it's not too useful.

A better idea (IMHO) would be to put two LEDs in the two "ridges" next to the keyboard, so that when the LEDs are on they help illuminate the keys.  Many modern laptops have this functionality in a light overtop of the screen or something similar, and there is a similar hack for the iBook that will "backlight" your keyboard.

Ideally, the LEDs would be attached to the backlight power, so that when the backlight is turned on the LEDs are also turned on automatically.  Depending on where power can be drawn from and at what voltage, this may or may not be possible.  Ideally there should be +5V or +12V that is switched on by the logic controller to power the flyback transformer - if there is a convenient place to draw from before the flyback, this should be possible.  Power draw will be minimal (20-40mA).


----
HomePage : NewtonWishLists : HardwareWishList : [eMateKeyboardIllumination]
