[[HomePage]] : [[HowTo]] : [[EraseCards]]%%%
[[HomePage]] : [[HardWare]] : [[FlashCards]] : [[EraseCards]]%%%
----

## How to erase Linear Flash Cards with damaged Index

*__Q:__ When I insert a storage card in my MP2100, it tries to activate the packages and then stalls (always at different packages). Same behaviour at reboot. ;=( I have a recent backup, so data loss is not an issue -- I just want to wipe the card and restore my backup. But how can I get this card erased? Are there any cool Newton tricks, like how to avoid package activation when inserting the card, that would allow to completely wipe it?%%%

*__A1:__ If you hold the stylus (or your thumbnail) down on the screen on the left side about 1" to 1 1/2" up from the bottom of the screen, and while holding the stylus on that point, inserting the card, you will get a dialogue asking if you want to activate the packages on the newly inserted card. Respond "NO", and the card will be recognized with package activation.%%%
**What frequently happens here is:%%%
**#You used freezing to manage heap, and most of the packages that were on this card before were frozen.%%%
**#A restore will put the packages on the card in an "unfrozen" state.%%%
**#Inserting a loaded high capacity card where all of the packages are unfrozen will overrun your available heap, and cause the newton to lock up.%%%
*By using the above technique, you can get into the card, freeze everything that should be in a frozen state, and then reboot.  it should come up fine after that. ([[GaryMoody]] on [NTLK](http://marc.10east.com/?l=newtontalk&m=111582768401727&w=2) 2005)%%%

*__A2:__ Try inserting the card while the Newton's preference window (Extras/Unfiled/Prefs) is open. You will be offered the option of erasing all data from the card (""). ([[WoodySmith]] on [NTLK](http://marc.10east.com/?l=newtontalk&m=111581678409932&w=2) 2005)%%%

*__A3:__ If that fails, then there are [some utils|http://www.unna.org/unna/windows/flash/intel/utils.exe] on [[UNNA]] (for Windows only... sorry) for manipulating Linear Flash cards. ([[VictorRehorst]] on [NTLK](http://marc.10east.com/?l=newtontalk&m=111581767028742&w=2)2005)%%%

----
[[HomePage]] : [[HowTo]] : [[EraseCards]]%%%
[[HomePage]] : [[HardWare]] : [[FlashCards]] : [[EraseCards]]%%%