Date: Fri, 16 Sep 2005 01:59:43 -0400
Mime-Version: 1.0 (Produced by PhpWiki 1.3.11p1)
Content-Type: application/x-phpwiki;
  pagename=Glossary;
  flags="";
  author=222.152.100.34;
  version=1;
  lastmodified=1126850383;
  created=1126850383;
  author_id=222.152.100.34;
  markup=2;
  hits=285;
  charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary

This is the beginning of a glossary.  I don't have the technical skill or background to provide decent definitions so if you see this and have the confidence to put one in then please do!

Grant Hutchinson's Glossary:  http://www.splorp.com/newton/glossary/

The Glossary on UNNA:         http://tools.unna.org/glossary/

_Index:%%%_
ATA%%%
Bookmaker%%%
Extensions%%%
Inbox%%%
Jaggies%%%
Linear memory card%%%
NBU%%%
NCU%%%
Newton Press%%%
NTK - Newton ToolKit%%%
Packages%%%
Put away%%%
SER-001%%%
Soups%%%

Definitions
-----------
ATA:  A file system for storage media that requires Paul Guyot's software to work.

Bookmaker:  definition required

Extensions:  definition required

Inbox:  A catch-all storage area where emails and packages reside until they are ""put away"".

Jaggies:  A condition in which the Newton loses its ability to accurately respond to input from the stylus.  If you have Jaggies, drawing a straight line from one corner to the other will not produce a straight line on screen.

Linear memory card:  The filing system storage media cards that are compatible with the Apple Newton.

NBU:  A piece of software available for Classic Mac and Windows that provides backup facilities.

NCU:  Newton Connection Utilities.  This software is used to connect the Newton to the serial port of a computer so packages (below) can be loaded.  It also includes utilities to back up your Newton as well as export documents.

Newton Press:  definition required

Newton Took Kit (NTK):  definition required

Packages:  definition required

Put Away:  definition required

SER-001:  A serial interface card for the MP2000/MP2100 designed and built by PCBMan that provides a normal Apple serial connector so that a Newton serial dongle is not required for exchanging data.
Both the existing port and the SER-001 port are active simultaneously but only one or the other should be used when making a connection. Unlike the built-in connector, the SER-001 cannot be used to wake the Newton or route audio signals.
Installation of the SER-001 requires opening the case of the MessagePad but does not require soldering.

Soups:  definition required
