Maybe you are a Newton user with some curious ideas on what you'd like to see happen in the Newton hardware department. Well, let us know about it!

Or you are a hardware-hacking prodigy, looking for new ideas on what to tackle next - find inspiration here and leave comments (and hopefully project updates ;=} ).

----

## Newton Hardware Wishlist

# Internal
* [Larger Factory Ram ](InternalRamAddition) - Paul.Curtis@[[NewtonMP]].com
* [MP 2x00 RAM Upgrade ](MpRamUpgrade)
* [MP 1x0 Turbo-Board ](MP1x0Turbo) - Power to the people!
* [MP 2x00 CPU Upgrade ](MpCpuUpgrade)
* [eMate CPU Upgrade ](eMateCpuUpgrade)
* [[BackupCapacitor]] for eMate - 1x0 have backup-batts, 2x00 a super-cap so removing the battery doesn't let them lose time and date. eMates don't have either...
* [eMate audio input upgrade ](eMateMic)
* TFT screen - Oh man! A sharp black interface over a bright white background is all good or what? And so can we dream with a colorful NOS later?...

# Communication and Interfaces
* [[eMateKeyboardIllumination]] - adding strategically placed LEDs inside the eMate so that when the backlight is turned on, the keyboard is also lit.  I might actually end up doing this... - [[VictorRehorst]]
* [[InternalBluetoothChip]]
* [Internal All-In-One Communication Card ](InternalCommCard) - Paul.Curtis@[[NewtonMP]].com
* [MP 2x00 Case Mods ](MpCaseMods)
* [Multifunction Interconnect Adapter](AppleMultifunctionInterconnectAdapter) - Replaces Interconnect with real-world ports: Audio In, Audio Out, Power In, two (2) serial ports.
* Slimmer eMates and such, in other words: [eMate casemods ](ecasemodlist)
* [[UniversalRemoteControlFunction]]
* [[InternalUSBInterface]] - An internal mini-USB interface card that installs like the SER-001 board

## Peripherals Wishlist
* [MP 2x00 Cradle | [[MpCradle]] ] - Charging Cradle and Docking Station for MP2k
* [[KeyPadController]]
* [[NewtonSensorSuite]] - DIY sensors that attach to Newton and get logged there.

----
## See also:

* [[HackNewton]] - all the hardware hacks already done.

----
[[HomePage]] : [[NewtonWishLists]] : [[HardwareWishList]]