Date: Fri, 7 Feb 2003 13:50:17 -0500
Mime-Version: 1.0 (Produced by PhpWiki 1.3.11p1)
Content-Type: application/x-phpwiki;
  pagename=NcuOsxWithOsNineBoot;
  flags="";
  author=RossOlson;
  version=1;
  lastmodified=1044643817;
  created=1044643817;
  author_id=63.227.218.225;
  markup=2;
  hits=985;
  charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary

NewtonConnectionUtilities only operates in Classic, OS X's way of running old Macintosh programs.

1) Activate Appletalk in the OS X "Network" Preferences Panel

2) Boot Up in OS 9 and install and use NCU. (I have slot loading 350mhz iMac, OS 10.2.3, crossover cable.)

3) FIND YOUR MACs APPLE TALK NETWORK NAME
Start in OS 9.2 and connect. You need to find your computers network name and get it into the pop up menu in the Newton's AppleTalk Prefs. Use the connect to other computer to make sure you have it correct (you may have this already)

4) RESTART IN OSX
Boot into x again

5) FIND THE "CLASSIC CHOOSER"
I opened the "classic chooser" by looking on
hard drive/ (9) System folder/ apple menue items/ chooser
Click on it and then keep the chooser as the front window

 ***The next steps takes a bit of finnesse and timing (kinda like the iTunes plugin)

6) MAKING AN APPLE TALK CONNECTION THAT WILL LAST
the problem here is OSX's apple talk shuts off if there is any minute pause in the connection. You have to create a connection long enough to launch NCU. here is the trick: On the newton side launch the dock and pick "other computer" (yes you need to do this again. Not to actually find the computer name. (You know that.)  Its because  the Newtons searching activity will prevent OSX from closing the connection long enough to do the next steps.

7) Drag the searching screen down so you can access the buttons on the dock screen on your Newton.

8) Launch NCU and sets its prefs to listen via apple talk. (if not set already you may need to do this and quit everything and go back to step 3

9) Hit dock's connect button on the newt (using the computer name found in step 3)

10) You should be golden
