[[HomePage]] : [[HardWare]] : [[NewtNav]]%%%
[[HomePage]] : [[HardWare]] : [[GPSOnNewton]] : [[NewtNav]]%%%
----
%%%
Adapter by Adriano Angelillis (Italy) for attaching a serial GPS device (e.g. Polstar or AQ-Max AQ-300 GPS mice) to the Newton. It allows transmission of GPS data from receiver to Newton and also to power the GPS receiver from the Newton's internal battery pack.

In this, it is a much easier and less cluttered solution that the one proposed by Ron Parker for his [[LakeTahoeHikingNewton]] (note that his solution is __perfect__ for his needs, though: running GPS Map off a [[MessagePad120]] w/o backlight; also using external power sources will mean the Newton's runtime is not being shortened by the receiver's consumption...).


[NewtNAV website](http://homepage.mac.com/adriano.angelillis/PhotoAlbum8.html)

[NewtNAV presented](http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?t=111377162800001&r=1&w=2) on NTLK


# [[NewtNav]] FAQ:

* Q: Does [[NewtNav]] also work with Mr PCBMan's SER-001?
** A: Yes, sure.

* Q: Does [[NewtNav]] also work with an MP 1x0's serial port?
** A: In a word: No. [[NewtNAV]] connect to a 9pin serial port (as the one present on eMate and/or MP2k via interconnect). As you could read above, a cool GPS configuration for the MP1x0 series already exist, and i think that Ron Parker's solution is the very best for MP1x0 series, because it will not drain energy from the Newton internal battery.

* Q: Which GPS receiver is [[NewtNav]] compatible with?
** A: [[NewtNAV]] is compatible with the AQ-300 GPS antenna only. (Seemlessy) every GPS serial antenna on the market has its own pinout, so a specific [[NewtNAV]] have to be made. A quick note: the first [[NewtNAV]] was made compatible for the Polstar GPS receiver pinout, but it has never been tested.

----
# See also these Newton GPS-Ressources:

* [[GPSOnNewton]]
* [[LakeTahoeHikingNewton]]

%%%
# See also these fabulous products from [[AdrianoAngelillis]]:

* [[NewtLight]] -- Mini-DIN 9-to-USB adapter for use with MP 2x00's [[InterConnectPort]] and the [[InterConnectDongle]], draws power from [[InterConnectPort]] (NO USB connection!).
* [[NewtSplit]] -- Y-adapter: Newton-to-PC serial with male USB plug that provides power from the [[MessagePad]].
* [[NewtEye]] -- A 10.000mcd blue led that directly plugs into the Newton's serial port.
----
[[HomePage]] : [[HardWare]] : [[NewtNav]]%%%
[[HomePage]] : [[HardWare]] : [[GPSOnNewton]] : [[NewtNav]]%%%