[[HomePage]] : [[HardWare]] : [[NewtLight]]
----

## [[NewtLight]] FAQ


[[NewtLight]] is a Mini-DIN 9-to-USB adapter for use with MP 2x00's [[InterConnect]] Port and the IC-Serial-Dongle by [[AdrianoAngelillis]]. See his [NewtLight website|http://homepage.mac.com/adriano.angelillis/PhotoAlbum1.html] and his [announcement and discussion](http://marc.10east.com/?t=111244943700004&r=1&w=2] at [[NTLK]).


# Q's and A's from DJ Vollkasko and Adriano Angelillis (April 2005)

*Q: Is the [[NewtLight]] MP 1x0 compatible?
*A: Sorry, [[NewtLight]] it's not compatible with MP1x0 series.

%%%
*Q: Does [[NewtLight]] on MP 2x00 allow drawing power from the Newton while data passes through the [[InterConnect]]-port?
*A: I am working on it, but i can say for now that the resulting hardware it will be bigger than the [[NewtLight]].

%%%
*Q: Is [[NewtLight]] compatible with [Mr. PCBMan's|http://www.members.tripod.com/mrpcbman] [SER-001](http://www.members.tripod.com/mrpcbman/SER-001.htm)?
*A: The SER-001 will make the [[NewtLight]] function well, but i would not use the [[NewtLight]] on this port cause the SER-001 is a not shielded port, and is not so robust as the newton interconnect dongle.

%%%
*Q: Does [[NewtLight]] on MP 2x00 allow drawing power from the Newton while data passes through an installed SER-001 (i.e. simultaneous use of both ports)?
*A: Yes, and is the best reason to have a [[NewtLight]].

%%%
*Q: What I need is a way to draw power from the Newton to drive a GPS receiver (GSP mouse) while also connecting the GPS via serial port to my Newton...
*A 1: Here's a trick:
- connect the device to be powered to the [[NewtLight]] through the dongle
- connect the device to use for exchanging data to the Ser-001
- go to preference panel, select recording via "line-in", read the advise window, close it with a laugh ^_^
- open Notes, start a new recording session, click start then pause
- you will have your device powered all the time you need
- to turn-off it, simply stop recording
*A 2: A faster trick:
- Install the Stowaway driver package
- open the Stoaway app
- click "Connect" and minimize
- your device is powered

----
# See also these fabulous products from [[AdrianoAngelillis]]:

* [[NewtNav]] -- Serial adapter to power GPS receiver from MP2k's [[InterConnectPort]] and transfer data simultaneously. All you need now is a GPS receiver, no external power supply, hub, adapters or cables -- nothing besides besides [[InterConnectDongle]] and [[NewtNav]].

* [[NewtSplit]] -- Y-adapter: Newton-to-PC serial with male USB plug that provides power from the [[MessagePad]].

* [[NewtEye]] -- A 10.000mcd blue led that directly plugs into the Newton's serial port.
----
[[HomePage]] : [[HardWare]] : [[NewtLight]]