Date: Thu, 30 Mar 2006 14:00:50 -0500
Mime-Version: 1.0 (Produced by PhpWiki 1.3.11p1)
Content-Type: application/x-phpwiki;
  pagename=NewtonConnectionUtilities;
  flags="";
  author=VictorRehorst;
  version=1;
  lastmodified=1143745250;
  created=1143745250;
  author_id=204.225.173.9;
  markup=2;
  hits=5397;
  charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary

NCU was the final piece of software that Apple produced for the Newton platform. It is the most featureful and robust docking software that is available. NCU is the Newton's equivalent to Palm's 'HotSync Manager'.

Apple's previous software for this was called NewtonConnectionKit. NCK is for older Newtons only.

!!!Installation

!!Windows

Will need to use 'slowdown.exe' on a PC of recent vintage.  Short-term operations will work fine, causing one to think ''Oh, my x86 box must be slow enough for NCU.''  However, as your Newton fills, you'll find that what used to work is suddenly barfing.  This is because NCU's time-out is based on a certain number of cycles through a busy-loop counter, not on a time-period expiring.  __Bad programmer, no sushi!__

Some people have never had problems with serial connections though, so try it without slowdown instead.

* Known to work well on:
** 486/75 laptop (24Mb RAM, W95)
%%%
* Known to need slowdown.exe on:
** P2/266 laptop (192Mb RAM, W98)

!57600bps registry hack

You can get NCU to work at 57600bps instead of the usual serial speed, 38400bps.  Here's how to do it:

# Install NCU, and go into its preferences and set anything you need to first, like your COM port (if you open the Preferences after doing the hack, you'll have to redo step 3).  Remember or write down the COM port you're using, and close NCU.
# First install the [http://www.unna.org/view.php?/utilites/system_enhancements/Ser57600|Ser57600] to add a "Serial 57600" connection option to the Dock.
# Now open regedit by clicking 'Start->Run' and typing 'regedit', click OK.  In the leftmost pane browse to HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Apple\Newton Connection Utilities\Communications.  In the right pane you'll see a list of entries, one for each COM port.  Right-click the COM port you'll be using and choose Modify.  Change the number '38400' in the string to '57600' and click OK.  DON'T add any more spaces or any other characters.
# Close regedit and re-open NCU.  On your Newton, open the Dock and choose the "Serial 57600" option and hit connect.  Bingo.

!!MacOS 9, Mac OS 8, System 7

''Standard Instructions to be added here''

!!Mac OS X

* To Install when you can also boot into OS 9: NcuOsxWithOsNineBoot
* To Install when you can't or don't want to boot into OS 9 see: NcuOsx  (by AndrewDiller)
