This is the distillation of a lengthy thread in [[NewtonTalk]] November 2005 and shows how to set up your Newt 2x00 to print on a modern printer via a Mac in OSX 10.4.%%%

# Load Kallisys' LPR Print package <http://www.kallisys.com/newton/lpr/> onto your Newt.%%%
# Set up an Internet Setup to connect to your router and hence to your Mac (I was using wi-fi but an Ethernet card should also do (I have not tested this method). I used a manual configuration (DHCP not tested yet) with a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0, appropriate router and local addresses and no DNS entry.%%%
# Set up a Worksite for printing. I set this up using the the printer's name (as on the computer) and the Internet setup I wanted to use (wi-fi).  I presume that for ease you could have another worksite for Ethernet printing.%%%
# When you want to print something you will initially get the print slip and on first use you will need to set up the printer. Selecting the printer brings up a choose printer slip and you need to set up an LPR printer. Choose LPR printer->Add and enter first the printer name, then the Mac's LAN address then the queue name. This is where I had most trouble and have to thank Woody for the clue. Go to System Preferences->Print & Fax and click on Printer Setup, select Name & Location on the list chooser and you will see the Queue name. Use this name exactly as shown.%%%
If everything is set up right you should get a print using the worksite internet setup and card chosen.%%%
--------

I think that if you don't put anything for the queue name, the mac will print on the default printer. -- [[PaulGuyot]]
--------

This solution worked, but was slow for me using an eMate 300 and a CUPS-PDF printer on a Mac iBook in printing ink text and sketches / RIPping them to PDF. If you have an eMate rather than a 2xxx, try the alternate setup I describe in -- [[JonDueck]]