[[HomePage]] : [[NewtonWishLists]] : [[SoftwareWishlist]] : [[SynchableWiki]]
----

* A hot-rodded personal Wiki on your Newton.
* Allows synching via LAN/serial/Bluetooth/modem with instances on other Newtons as well as with a Wiki on desktop and a webserver.
* Gives graphic representation of Wiki-structure (like [[MindMap]]).
* Gives keywords and general topics to every page, provides a list view of all entries by keywords and topics ("chapters", general subject areas).
* Also lists entries by date.


Use the Wiki on your Newton to sketch ideas on the go, collect data (e.g. articles from the web and their URLs), edit & put that into context (tree structure, cross-linking). Replicate data + structure to desktop computer or publish directly to online Wiki on a webserver.

The overall-functionality of the complete solution for Newton, desktop and webserver would be a bit of a Wiki crossed with [[MindMap]] and a blog.
----

# Neat Idea by [[OwenCollins]]

"Subject:    [[NTLK]] [Syncable wiki|](http://marc.10east.com/?l=newtontalk&m=113147984210840&w=2) %%%
From:       [Owen Collins](mailto:collinso@wlu.edu)%%%
Date:       2005-11-08 19:54:23%%%
%%%
Just thinking about the Syncable wiki that was talked about while ago.
If [[NewtWiki]] puts it's wiki into a soup, couldn't a plug-in for Newtsync
that syncs info from  that soup to a specified file/folder on the Mac?

Just a thought

Owen"


%%%
----
[[HomePage]] : [[NewtonWishLists]] : [[SoftwareWishlist]] : [[SynchableWiki]]