Hey y'all!  I'm so glad to see people reading and writing here.  (Far fewer are writing than reading, but I guess that's to be expected).  Anyways, I don't want to be an evil dictator or anything, but I wanted to put down some quickie suggestions and guidelines I'd hope people could follow if you're writing here.

* USE PREVIEW!  It's fast and fun, and it'll make you see errors before they happen!

* Try to make all links within the wiki in the form of [[WordsSmashedTogether]], instead of having to have single words in square brackets.  The former type of link is just easier to type when you're cruising along writing a page and want to make a link.  Square brackets should really only be necessary for linking to external sites or when you __need__ more than one capital letter together in a link - like [[MP2x00]].

* Make links descriptive!  For example, someone made two pages called Hardware and Software that described the connection hardware and software required for a Newton <-> Desktop connection.  That's great, but those links are confusing, because they imply that the pages talk about __all__ hardware or software.  You see?  A better name would have been [[DesktopConnectionHardware]] and [[DesktopConnectionSoftware]] (which is where I'm going to move those pages to).  It seems far longer and more complicated, but for a [[WikiWiki]] it makes perfect sense.

* If a page should be associated with an "index" page, link the child page back to its parent.  The suggested way is to make a horizontal line at the bottom of the page, and then put the link(s) to its parent pages.  See [[OriginalMessagePad]] for an example of this.

--[[VictorRehorst]]