Connecting to unix or linux with your Newton can be a little trickier a [[WindowsConnection]] or a [[MacOS987Connection]] since Apple never released any native connection software. There are several native programs that allow basic functionality such as installing packages, and [[BasiliskII]] allows you to run native Mac OS connection utilities once it is set up properly.

To connect physically, you must either have a serial port and the appropriate PC/mac serial cable and dongle, or the PC/newton serial cable with integrated dongle, or an ethernet card for your Newton and appletalk enabled on your unix computer.

Software called Wine has been developed for Linux that allows for the running of software developed for Microsoft Windows. __Newton Connection Utilities__ runs quite well utilizing wine - that is, backup, package installation and __[[NewtWorks]]__ export all occur without issue. (This is assuming the latest version of wine.) __Newton Tool Kit__ and __Newton Press__ both run under wine. Although NTK & Newton Press both can't connect to the Newton under wine, everything else functions properly.

(__Question for those who know:__ Does the USB/serial adapter used with Mac OS X work in non-Apple unixes?)

(most USB serial adapters like those from keyspan work with free UNIX clones. Solaris for example doesn't support any USB2Serial Adapters afaik)

----
# See also:
*Some of the native programs available are in [[UnnaReviews]], under the [[ConnectToComputer]] category. Which operating system programs work with is indicated in the listing.
*[[NewtonConnectivityCD]] gives a good collection of connectivity tools for all platforms. A software archive with all freely distributable apps is linked to.
----
[[HomePage]] :  [[UNIXConnection]]